When we use three dimensional graphics for
data visualization, we're going to need to add photorealism in order to cue us to the
three-dimensional spacial configuration of shapes that are being displayed
to us in a two-dimensional image. So photorealism describes visual cues that
tell our perceptual system that when it see a two-dimensional image, it's seeing
a depiction of a three dimensional scene. Some of these cues are occlusion. Occlusion is shown here, the fact that
this boys hand is in front of the frame. It's start to trigger your perceptual
system to think that this is a three-dimensional scene
of a boy climbing out of the frame instead of a two-dimensional
image of a boy on a frame. Other things like perspective,
the fact that this water's receding into the horizon and details are getting
closer together in the distance. Others like lighting, the light bouncing off the forehead
of this boy or attenuation that the water is becoming whiter as
the fog is attenuating the light. All of these add cues, so that your
perceptual system that's looking at a two-dimensional image
can understand that. It's actually a three-dimensional
scene that's being depicted. One of the strongest cues
of these is occlusion. For example, this red-orange rectangle
is in front of this blue rectangle, because you can see all of
this red-orange rectangle. You can't see all of this blue rectangle, because it's being occluded and
this sets up a depth ordering. We don't know how much closer
the red-orange rectangle is to us from the blue rectangle, but
we do know that it is closer. An occlusion is the strongest cue and it is fun to play with it with optical
illusions, because of that strength. Illumination helps us perceive
the orientation of surfaces and there's two kinds of illuminations
that we tend to use. One is diffuse illumination, which is brightest when a surface
is facing a light source. And we usually see this from soft objects,
rough objects, things like cloth or pencil erasers or other surfaces that
are scattering light in many directions. And then there's specular illumination and
that adds these white highlights and we usually see these on shiny objects,
metallic objects. And these highlights are added in regions
of the surface that are facing in a mirror reflection that would reflect
the light source towards the eye. And so, we can combine these when
we're doing data visualization. This is an example of particles that
are leaving trails to show the simulation of the flow of blood in the abdominal
aorta and we're using certain cues. For example, occlusion that some of these
trails are in front of other trails as you can see this green trail is
in front of the blue trail. We're using lighting, because you can
see that these trails are cylindrical. They have a brighter side and the darker
side, because of diffused sliding. Also loosing perspectives,
we see larger things here and smaller things more detailed at the back. And all of those add up to give you better
sense of the shape of this aorta and the blood flow inside of it. There's some other cues
that are important. One is shadowing. Shadowing is an inclusion cue from
a second viewpoint where that second viewpoint is at the light source. So here,
I've got two two-dimensional images. In both cases, we can think of these
due to perspective as a flat blue plain with a red-orange ball on top of it,
but we don't know if this red orange ball is
hovering over the middle of the plain or if it's laying on the plain
toward the back of it. If I had a shadow,
you can see on the left case here, the red orange ball is laying on
the blue plane towards its back. But in this case, which is the exact
same image I've just changed the shadow, we can see that this blue ball is hovering
over the middle of the blue square. And so in, for example,
this visualization of a molecule, you can use these shadows to get a better
sense of depth due to the directions that the shadows are being cast from
in understood light source direction. There's also a perspective in addition
to being able to see more detail far away with perspective. Perspective is based on size constancy. That objects are the same size,
but farther ones appear smaller. You don't think that the object
is changing its size. You understand that the visual
system is looking at a larger area that's further away, because of the way
it gets projected onto our retina or onto our image plane in
the case of computer graphics. In computer graphics, the way we do
this is we actually make things that are farther away smaller and make
things that are closer to us larger by actually moving the vertices and
then projecting onto a projection plane. And so to get this perspective view where
you've got the front of the table larger than the back of the table,
what we've actually done is actually made the primitives of the table, larger
in the front and smaller at the back. But computer graphics does this for
you automatically, so you don't actually have to do this. And so these examples are demonstrated
in this animation from the National Center for Supercomputing
Application on an F3 tornado. And you can see, we're using perspective. The perspective allows us to see the
glyphs in the front of this visualization and also the patterns that these
glyphs form as you go farther away. And so this is a storm chaser view and you
can see the occlusions of these arrows, so you can get a sense and
the arrows are larger in the front and smaller in the back. So you can get a sense of the depth of the
simulation of this tornado and the paths that these particles are tracing, and
also we see shadows on the ground. Shadows being cast of one
primitive to another and also the lighting that these
primitives are illuminated on one side better than they're illuminated or
more brightly than on another side to give you a sense that the shape
of these arrows are cylindrical. Also, as the storm chaser
moves through the dataset, things in the front are moving by
the viewer faster than things in the back. That's another 3D cue
called motion parallax. And finally, there's stereo. We can use stereo in
the absence of other cues. In this case, I was just plotting points
of a mathematical equation to create some shapes and the way you visualize
this is you hold your fingers up in front of your two eyes and
right across your eyes. So that your right eye is
looking at the left image and your left eye is looking at the right
image, basically by focusing on the finger until those two images in
the background start to merge together. If you do that, then you get a stereogram
and this two-dimensional set of points on this image plane should pop-out into
a three-dimensional configuration. If you want to simulate this, then you can
simulate this with two separate views. A view from a left eye and
a view from a right eye, looking in parallel at the data. Just make sure you don't
rotate those views. You want to make sure
the views are in parallel. So, what did we learn? We learned that occlusion is
the strongest of all the depth cues and that shadowing is an occlusion from
a viewpoint at the light source. Illumination is useful for surface orientation that helps reveal
details and perspective gives us different scales of visualization in
addition to adding depth perception. And when none of these
cues are available to us, sometimes some of
the other cues can be used. For example, stereo. We can use stereo in
the absence of other cues. In this case, I was just plotting points
of a mathematical equation to create some shapes. And the way you visualize this is you hold
your finger up in front of your two eyes and try to close your eyes, so that your
right eye is looking at the left image and your left eye is looking
at the right image. Basically, by focusing on the finger until
those to images in the background start to merge together. If you do that, then you get a stereogram
and this two-dimensional set of points on this image plane should pop-out into
a three-dimensional configuration. If you want to simulate this, then you can
simulate this with two separate views. A view from a left eye and a view from a
right eye looking in parallel at the data. Just make sure you don't
rotate those views. You want to make sure
the views are in parallel. We learn that occlusion is
the strongest of these depth cues and we learned that shadows are just
occlusion from a light source. We also learned that illumination cues
us to the orientation of surfaces and we also learned that perspective, allows us to visualize multiple
scales in the same image. [MUSIC]