[SOUND]
So often we want to visualize
multiple variables simultaneously. And so we generate stacked graphs
that can display several variables changing along the same dimension. For a bar chart, we may want to look
at more than just a single quantitative dependent variable measured across
an independent variable dimension. One way of doing this is
with a stacked bar chart. In this case we can have two or
more dependent variables plotted. In this case, the blue bars are
representing one dependent variable and the red bars are representing
a second dependent variable. And so we're using q to represent
different nominal value, basically the second dependent variable is different
than the first dependent variable. And then the total amount of
the contribution of both variables is represented by the height of
the top of these stacked bars. And the relative proportion
is being represented by the proportion of the bar being
one color versus another color. And if we want to emphasize
that relative proportion. We can have the bars stacked to 100% and just plot the percentage of
the contribution of one variable versus the other variable as the difference
in the colors of the bars. This kind of relative contribution is
also represented in a pie chart but in a pie chart you're representing
the contribution based on angle and a little bit by area than on position and
length. Here in a pie chart the relative
proportion of the blue category versus the orange category versus the
green category versus the yellow category is being represented by the angle
as the angle's sum to 360 degrees. It's also proportional to the area
represented by each of these four regions. That indication can be degraded
somewhat if you try to show a pie chart in three dimensions. And that's because in three
dimensions we are still perceiving a three dimensional scene
as a two dimensional image. And the visual cues we're using include
foreshortening and perspective. And those cues can get in the way of our
ability to perceive a region, say in the foreground, as being larger or smaller
than a region in the background because of our expectation that perspective is going
to make regions in the foreground larger. Or at least appear larger and
regions in the background appear smaller, even if it's just a orthographic
non-perspective projection. So, it's best not to use three
dimensions for pie charts and, in fact, it's better just to use a stacked
bar chart instead of a pie chart. In this case, each one of these bars
can represent a separate pie chart because it's representing the separate
relative contribution to the whole of multiple dependent variables, as they
vary across some independent variable. Also, stacking order matters. I've got the same data plotted
in the left and in the right. In the left,
I've plotted the blue variable first. And then I've stacked the red
variable on top of that. On the right side,
I've plugged the red variable first and I've stacked the blue
variable on top of that. On the right it's easy to see that
the red variable isn't changing across the horizontal axis. On the left, you can still see that
the red variable isn't changing, but you have to see that because
the lengths aren't changing. Whereas on the right,
the actual positions aren't changing. Which further verifies that position is
a stronger indicator than the length of the actual data values in terms
of mapping two geometric and spacial display elements. You can avoid that stacking order problem
by using diverging stacked bar charts if you have the red variable creating
bars growing upwards, and the blue variable creating
bars growing downward. But that stops working when you
have three or more variables. Another way to avoid having one variable
dominate the other in stacking order is to stack them and then re-center
the bar across the horizontal axis. So instead of growing up
from the horizontal axis the bar is just centered
at the horizontal axis. And this give us the same
displacement on the top and the bottom of the bar chart,
but it helps us to pay more attention to the areas of the elements
instead of their actual position. It's much better if you have continuously
changing horizontal and vertical axis variables to use stacked line graphs,
then stacked bar charts. If we can connect their data values
by lines instead of having them discrete bars, then it's easier
to see when areas are changing versus areas are remaining
constant as they move across even though they're displaced by
the variance of other variables. [MUSIC]