Hello, students. Today, I'm going to use clusterEnG
to demonstrate the usage of two publishing based algorithms,
K- means and K-medoids. As we have learned from the class, K-Means is a very popular publishing
based clustering algorithm. To partition the given data
points into k clusters. K-means first selects k
clusters centers randomly. Then, for every data point K-means computes
distances to the current k centers. Under sizes to the closest center. After that, K-means needs to update
the K centers by computing the mean of each cluster, such a process is repeated
until the K-centers do not change. The K-matter is algorithm is very
similar to the K-means algorithm. With the only difference that we are not
updating the center of each cluster we do not compute the mean of all the current
data points instead, we choose one data point from the cluster that
minimize the with-in cluster variance. On clustering remember that
there are three K steps. Data preparation, Algorithm choosing and
Result visualization. In this two hierarchical, lastly, used
simple data set that consist of 15 to data points, after uploading the data which
use K-means as a cluster algorithm. Also, a very important step is choosing
a number of clusters for K-means. Here, we say this parameter to straight. But the value of this parameter depends
on the specific specification and the data set used in practice, we can try out different parameter
values and determine the triple one. The running k means with k equal three we cluster the data points
into three clusters. As we can see from these plots the original 15 data points are separated
into three very clear clusters. We can also try out different k values. Let's say if we said k equals five, and
k means again on the same set of sides. Then, we're actually imposing finer
regularity on the classroom process. As we can see from the new plot. The data points that our ration may belong
to the same class are now separated into two different clusters. The k-medoids algorithm is
very similar to k-means. You can still use the process to
run k-medoids on the same div sets. And you'll find out that the clustering
results will be very similar. You can get more information
about those two algorisms. You can also visit
a tutorial of that page. So that concludes today's tutorial. Thanks for watching. [MUSIC] [MUSIC]