Hi. I am Hong Lay Drong. I am teaching assistant
of this Coursera course. Today, I'm going to introduce how to
use an online clustering tool to apply an agglomerative hierarchical
clustering algorithm on real data sets. The technical details of the hierarchical
clustering algorithms already introduced in previous slides. If you're not familiar with
the technical details, you may want to review
the previous lessons. There are several different ways
to implement the hierarchical clustering algorithm. The major difference is on how
do you define the dissimilarity. And to clarify in this system, we use average link
definition of dissimilarity. In this example, we're going to use
the data set of gene expression. You can find the list of such data
sets in the link given in this slide. In this data set, each row represents a
gene, and each column represents a sample. The value in this data set
represents the measured gene expression of a certain gene
within the surgeon sample. To start with, we select the surgeon
gene expression data set and insert the name of the data set. Here, we use an example of GDS10 data set. Click on submit. Here is how a hierarchical
clustering result looks like. This part visualized
the clustering results of genes represented by a dendrogram. If you want to get a clustering results
with a certain clustered number, let's say, if you want to get
a clustering results with four clusters, we can cut at a certain point of
the dendrogram and get clustering results. Similarly, here's a dendrogram of samples. And a heat map visualize
a clustering data set. And a larger value is
represented by green color and smaller value is represented by red color. On the website, you can actually
interact with the clustering results. As you can see,
if I want to determine a certain branch, the dendrogram, we can select
a certain branch, click and hold, To determine and see more details
on the clustering results. I'm going to zoom out, you can simply
click on this unzoom rows button, To get to the original results. If you want to perform hierarchical
clustering on your own data set, you can also do so on the website. Upload the data set here. This is the data set of restaurant
locations in Waterloo, Canada. Choose hierarchical clustering as
a clustering method and as I said, the number of clusters here. Click on submit. The visualization of the clustering
results is going to be shown here. Of course, you can also try
different parameter settings or try these algorithms on different real
data sets to see how the results differ. If you're interested in exploring more
on hierarchical clustering algorithm, here are some open questions. Thank you, and enjoy. [MUSIC] [MUSIC] [SOUND]