[SOUND]
Hello, welcome to the course in Text and
Retrieval and Search Engines. I'm ChengXiang Zhia. I have a nickname Cheng. I'm a Professor of the Department of
Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. This first lecture is basically
an introduction to the course, a brief introduction to what
we will cover in the course. We're going to first talk about the data
mining specialization seeing this course is part of that specialization. And then we will cover motivation
objectives of the course, this will be followed by prerequisites and
course format and reference books. And then finally,
we will talk about the course schedule, which has a number of topics to be
covered in the rest of this course. So the data mining specialization
offered by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is really to address
the need for their mining techniques to handle a lot of big data,
to turn the big data into knowledge. There are five lecture-based courses, as you see on the slide,
plus one capstone project in the end. I'm teaching two of them,
which is this course, Text Retrieval and Search Engines, and this one. The two courses that I cover
here are all about text data. In contrast,
the other courses are covering more general techniques that can be
applied to all kinds of data. So pattern discovery,
taught by Professor Jiawei Han, and cluster analysis, again taught by him,
about the general data mining techniques to handle structured and
unstructured text data. And data visualization covered by
Professor John Hart, is about the general visualization techniques, again,
applicable to all kinds of data. So the motivation for
this course, in fact, also for the other courses that I'm teaching,
is that we have a lot of text data and the data is everywhere,
is growing rapidly. So you must have been
experiencing this growth. Just think about how much text data
you're dealing with every day, I list some date types here. For example, on the Internet we see
a lot of web pages, news articles, etc., and then we have blog articles, emails, scientific literature, and tweets. As we are speaking, maybe a lot
of tweets are being written, and a lot of emails are being sent. So, the amount of text data is beyond
our capacity to understand, then. Also, the amount of data makes it
possible to actually analyze the data to discover interesting knowledge. And that's what we meant by
harnessing big text data. [MUSIC]