So the point of data visualization is
to get data out of the computer and into the human brain. And part of that process is going
to be memorizing that data and learning from that data. And so we have to understand
how human memory works. So we're going to learn what's
the difference between, for example, short-term memory, and
long-term memory and sensory memory? And how can we get things between
short-term and long-term memory? How can we remember things better? And, essentially,
how can we can learn better? So we'll start again with this model human
processor, except we'll reorganize it. I want to focus on the memory of this and
that's the visual image store, the auditory image store,
the working memory, the long-term memory. And these are connected by the perceptual
processors and the cognitive processors. And so I can reorganize this,
we have the sensory image stores go to the perceptual processor, which
places information in the working memory. Which then goes to
the cognitive processor and places information in
the long-term memory. And this process of taking
information from your senses and putting it in the working
memory is based on attention. And when you're paying attention
to something, like, for example, the fact that I'm pointing
the pointer and talking to you right now. You are taking the elements in your
very very short-term sensory stores. And you are processing them and
putting them in your working memory. Now because this is classroom material,
you want to remember that. And so you need to take these details
that I'm describing to you and take them from working memory and
put them in long-term memory. And that's a process that's
usually called rehearsal. There's a number of ways to do that,
but it's effectively called rehearsal. And you'll notice working memory
only holds about seven items. And those items are available for
about seven seconds. You can hold one item much longer, but for
several items it's about seven seconds. Before they decay, and
I've got several things on the screen. So you're processing each of these like
the perceptual store attention and perceptual processor. And trying to rehearse those and put those in long-term memory before
you try to memorize these other things. So, sensory memory is really
short-term device memory. On a cell phone, it would be the CCD
array that's recording the image data. And it'd be the registers
that are used to store and organize that information before
being sent as an image to the CPU. Visually, we have iconic memory,
this is persistence of vision. You look at something
flashed on the screen, and you can remember it even
though it's not there anymore. That's your iconic memory,
your visual sensory memory, it only last about half a second. You have echoic memory for hearing
things that lasts for about one and a half seconds. And then you have haptic memory,
which you can remember touch as well. And then, these constants can go up or
down based on arousal. How much attention are you paying? Arousal means that you're
paying more attention. And that can increase both
the severity of the memory and how long it lasts in your memory. And these things get placed
into working memory so your cognitive processor can process them. And this is like human dynamic RAM
memory because it needs to be refreshed. It dies about every 200 milliseconds,
and so it needs to be refreshed. And it has about 70
milliseconds access time. But it's very small, it only holds
about seven chunks, digits or words, seven things. And again recency effects are important,
the last thing that goes in the memory is usually the strongest and things start
to fade after a certain amount of time. And so we can have fun looking at
the working memory figuring out how things are organised in our short-term
working memory that we use to process. So I can give you a sequence of digits,
here's a sequence of digits 25439762608. And I'll hide those now, now,
what were those numbers? If you're like me, I can remember
maybe two, three, something or other. I don't remember any of those digits. And that's because it
overflowed my working memory, I couldn't remember that many Items for
that long. Let me take another set of the same number
of items, these are going to be different items, different numbers, but
the same number of digits. 456 295 1413, and you notice we've organized them into chunks, 456 295 1413. Now I hide them and
I can remember 456 293 1413. Oop, and I got wrong,
456 295 1413, 456 295 1413. Because I'm remembering chunks
instead of individual digits. And you can do the same thing, same
thing is true for characters and words. Here's some random characters,
HEC, ATR, ANU, PTH, ETR, EET. If I hide those, I don't know if you can
remember those particular characters. But I can remember them, those characters are HEC, ATR, ANU, PTR, EET. And the reason I can remember them
is that if I start with this T, and then go back to the beginning,
this spells out, the cat ran up the tree. And I can remember the cat ran up
the tree, that's only five words. Whereas, I'm looking at 18
different letters here, which would overflow my working memory. So, items are processed better
in working memory when we chunk them together into higher level objects. Then once things are in our short-term
memory, our working memory, we need to get them in our long-term
memory, so we can remember them later. And long-term memory is kind of
like the human world wide web, it's a persistent memory. It's effectively infinite and
lasts forever. And there's two types of long-term memory,
there's episodic memory and semantic memory. Episodic memory is time bearing memory, we remember sequences, events,
things that are organized temporally. This is how we remember songs,
you remember the lyrics. And you may not be able to remember every
word to a song unless you sing the song to get to that word. And semantic memory is
memory that's facts, but they're organized associatively,
there's links. So you get this stream of consciousness
where you you remember one thing. And then you can remember
something related to that, and something related to that. And so there's various representations for
these kinds of memories. There's semantic nets,
which are really just a graph. There's frames, which are kind
of a database with fields and entries that you can create relations and
create the associations between them. And then there's scripts,
which are similar to frames, that basically define the roles, scenes,
props and so on for various memories. So when we go through
the process of remembering, there's a couple concepts to keep in mind. One is the total time hypothesis. And that says that you can remember
something if you spend more time with it. The more time you spend on something,
the more likely you are to remember it. This could be memorizing by rote,
where you just keep repeating something. But it's not necessarily
best to always repeat and learn something by repeating it over and
over again. It's sometimes better to remember things
by working with them differently, but still spending time on them. There's the distribution
of practice effect, which means you can't memorize
a bunch of stuff all at once. It's better to memorize a few things at
a time, and then go do something else. And then come back and
remember a few things at a time. By distributing the memories over
a wider time and not all at once. Concrete things are easier to
remember than abstract things. And so we remember meanings. So if I read off the words faith,
age, cold, tenet, quiet, logic, idea, value, past. Those are harder to remember. But if I read off,
because they're abstract concepts. If I read off more concrete objects
like boat, tree, cat, child, rug, plate, gun, flame, head,
they tend to paint a picture in your mind. And it becomes a little bit easier for
you to remember those. And so we tend to memorize
things based on structure, based on familiarity,
mostly based on concreteness. So in the right, I've got an example,
if you want to memorize numbers, if you have the digits 1 through 0,
effectively 1 through 10 here. But 1 through 0, and you want to
memorize along sequence of numbers, for example, pie,
if you don't remember pi is 3.14159. If it's difficult to remember those
digits, those arbitrary digits. You can make them more concrete
by associating each digit with a concrete word that rhymes with it. So instead of 314,
you remember tree bun door. And the words tree, burn,
door start to paint a picture. And if I go tree, burn,
door, burn hive wine, I start to tell a little bit of a story. And you can start using more of your
episodic memory to remember these abstract ideas. We also forget, even when things
are put in our long-term memory. They will decay over time, and
that decay is logarithmic. We forget most things earlier and
then we forget fewer things longer away, this leads to Jost's Law. If you have two equally strong memories, then the older of the two
memories is more durable. If you don't forget something quickly, then your chances of memorizing
it forever are much greater. And then there's interference,
one of the reasons we forget things is that we learn things that
conflict with that memory. For example, there's proactive inhibition which means
you can't teach an old dog new tricks. If you've learned something one way,
then that one way, which has been in your long=term memory for a long time,
is going to be a strong memory. And it's going to be difficult to rewrite
that memory with new information. Because that old memory is so
much stronger and you're more likely to forget things
you've learned more recently. There's also retroactive interference. This is when you've just received so
much information t hat you start to forget things
because of the amount of information. This is, for example,
why it's not good to cram for an exam. Because you're filling your brain with so
much information that the more recent information is overriding
the less recent information. And because the information is less
recent, it's less strong in your memory. And finally, emotion,
we remember the good old days, we forget the mundane day-to-day details
that were boring about the good old days. You remember things based
on strong emotions. And so, if you can change your
emotional state when you're studying, that might help, but
it might also exhaust you. But it does have an impact on how you
remember and how you forget things. So there's three different
kinds of memory. There's sensory memory
that decays very quickly. There's working memory that
contains just a few objects that don't last for very long. And then there's long-term memory and things get into our long-term memory
through a process of learning. And we can improve our learning if
we can vary our learning styles. [MUSIC] [SOUND]