So when we visualize data we usually
want to make a decision based on that data. That means we need to
reason about the data. And so we need to learn the different ways
that the human cognitive system reasons. So what we'll learn is how does a human
observer understand a visualization? And how does a human observer
respond to a visualization? What are they thinking about when they
see this data presented to them visually? So we use the model human processor, but
we're going to focus on the cognitive processor, and the information provided
to it through the visual image store and visual perception, and
how we reason about that information. And there's three kind of reasoning
that we'll look at, deductive reasoning, inductive reasoning, and
abductive reasoning. Deductive reasoning is basically
drawing a conclusion based on the data. It's based on logic, if A then B so, if you see A then you can conclude
that B is going to exist. And if B doesn't exist you might
conclude that A doesn't exist, because if A happened
then B would've happened. So these are all valid logical
conclusions based on visual data. Sherlock Holmes used to say,
when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbably,
must be the truth. And that's basically just
the process of elimination, which is again a deductive reasoning
method for drawing a conclusion. And so, for example,
these reasoning examples, I'm going to use this
life expectancy data. This is average data for
all countries in the world. And our life expectancy has grown in
the 1960s from an average of 54 years, to an average of about 71 years in 2012. And so based on this data, I might deduce that I'm one of the members of one of the countries that was
used to create this data. I might expect that my life
expectancy has similarly increased over the past few decades. And that would be a logical conclusion
based on the information from this graph. Also you can see a correlation
here anytime you have a graph that's increasing this way. It's showing a correlation
between time and between life expectancy,
and so we're deducing, we are concluding that life
expectancy is increasing over time. And so people nowadays are living longer
than they were a few decades ago, and that's a reasonable deduction. We have to be careful that this is
showing correlation and not causation. And that we're not showing that
because people are growing older, time is passing necessarily. There are many other cases
where two items are correlated, but one does not necessarily
cause the other. Or you get the causation
in the wrong direction. There's also inductive reasoning, which basically says if something is
true for x then it's true for x +1, and you know that's it's true for x,
so in that case it's true for all x. If it's true for one specific case,
it's true for all of the cases. And these are generalizations. We can use this to extrapolate data,
for example, life expectancy. I can look at this shape and I might
expect that life expectancy is going to continue to grow at the rate of about
ten years every decade and a half. And so
eventually we'll live to be 200 years old. And so some generalizations are helpful,
some generalizations aren't helpful, and we have to be careful with
those kinds of extrapolations. Also interpolation, I've got this data
yearly, but I'm drawing this as a smooth line which is an inductive
reasoning prediction that says that this is varying smoothly in
between the data items, it's interpolated. And it's not varying widely between
an individual year and the next year. So inductive reasoning allows
us to infer missing data. It allows us to extrapolate data,
either before or after the graph, but it's less reliable than deductive
reasoning, but still can be helpful. And finally, abductive reasoning. This is based on sort of the human
need for meaning, to ask why. And so given this data that life
expectancy on average has been increasing over the past few decades, we might start to ask why is that
the case, and we might create models. And so in this case the graph is
increasing almost like a straight line, and so you can do regression. You can fit a line to this data and
create a model for this data. And you can use that model
to replace the data, and in our minds we might not think of
every single detail of this data. And we might think in general,
the data is growing at the rate of our life expectancies, growing at the
rate of ten years every decade and a half. And those models are good but
they create a problem. For example, cognitive dissonance, it's our ability to entertain simultaneous
contradictory opinions at the same time. So it may be difficult for
us to think of two things, two opposite models at the same time,
even though we don't know which model is correct,
and so we tend to take sides. And if our evidence disagrees with our
model, sometimes the model is so powerful in our minds, that we tend to disregard
the evidence, and that can be dangerous. And so as we go about with visualization,
we have sort of the baggage of our models, our expectations
of the way the world works, and our abductive reasoning is trying
to fit this data to those models. So there are three different
kinds of reasoning. There's deduction,
where we draw a conclusion. There's induction,
where we make a generalization. And then there's abduction, where we
try to predict how an event happened. And all three of those are at play
when we're understanding the data that we're seeing in a visualization. [MUSIC] [SOUND]