So when we display data the data will then
need to be perceived by a human observer. That perception starts
with the human retina. And so, we need to understand
how the retina perceives light. We're going to learn about the eye and
how does the eye sense light. And based on that knowledge of how
the eye physically senses the light, we can figure out how small the details
of a visualization can be and what color should you
use in a visualization. So we're going to focus on the eye,
and the mechanics of the eye. And this is a image of the eye and
illustration from Grey's Anatomy. And the eye consist of a lens
that focuses the light that receives from the aperture
that is control by this iris. And it focuses that
light onto this retina. And this retina contains the sensors that
basically determine what light is hitting, what part of this image plane. So we don't have an image plane,
it's more of a hemisphere. And the important part here
is this fovea centralis. This is your center of vision. When you look at something, it's because
that something you're looking at is getting focused onto the fovea centralis. This is where you have a lot of sensors
that can tell a lot of detail about what you're looking at, then less sensors
as you get farther away from that. You also have an optic nerve that
connects to your retina, and you don't have any sensors here to be able
to see the light that's coming in, so there's a blind spot that we have, and we
don't even realize we have the blind spot, because our perceptual system
is covering it up with, in a way that we don't
even realize is happening. So this leads to visual acuity,
the notion of visual acuity. How sharp is your vision? What can you see, how small of
a detail can you present to a viewer? And we measure our visual acuity
when we go to an eye doctor, when we look at one of these eye charts
and it tells us our Snellen ratio. 20/X, which means you can distinguishes
at 20 feet what the average person can distinguish at X feet. So if you can only see this letter E,
then you have 200 vision, meaning you can see this E at 20 feet
when the average person can see this E even as far away as 200 feet. And if you can see below this red line, you have better than 20/20,
better than average vision. And the reason you can distinguish these
letters [COUGH] is that their features project to a certain distance
apart on the retina, and if your lens is doing a good job
of focusing that information, then the sensors on your retina
can resolve those details. If your lens is not doing such a good job,
then the image that's getting presented isn't going to be resolved
as well by your sensors. And so, your retina basically is
going to consist of rods and cones. Rods perceive the brightness and
cones perceive color. And there's three varieties of cones. Cones that perceive mostly red colors,
[COUGH] cones that perceive mostly red colors,
cones that perceive mostly green colors, and cones that perceive
mostly blue colors. And then, there's a variety of
additional processing that happens by the ganglion's,
these other nerve cells after the retina. But this rods and cones are useful
to look at for the moment. You have 80 million rods and
only 5 million cones. So your intensity vision is much
better by your color vision. Your rods are denser away from the fovea. Your fovea, your center of vision,
is mostly cones, as it turns out. So astronomers have learned, when they're
looking at very dim stars, to look slightly away from the star, look slightly
off to the side of what they're studying. So that their rods can process
the information and not their cones, because their rods are more
sensitive to the changes in light. And they're quite sensitive, they
don't even turn on when it's daylight. And then, you have cones,
and they're, again, sensitive to various colors or
various wavelengths of light. They're very dense in the fovea,
anywhere from a 100,000 to 325,000 cones per millimeter
squared in the fovea and they can distinguish about 150 hues and combined between the different hues,
a hue is a colour in the rainbow. And the different shades and intensities
and saturations, you end up with about 7 million different shades that
you can distinguish with your eye. Depending on how on your lens, all lenses exhibits some form
of chromatic aberration. And that means that refraction
depends on the wavelength of light. Light at the red wavelengths is
going to focus at a different location than light in the green
wavelengths to the blue wavelengths, and this creates a dispersion that
can create problems of focus, and this is why blue blocker sunglasses or
amber sunglasses which are nothing more than just amber shaded
filters on your sunglasses. They're going to age our vision because
they're filtering out blue light and blue tense to focus off
the retina whereas red and green tend to focus closer to the retina. So the blue wavelengths are actually
blurring the image and the red and green wavelengths are generally
sharper on the retina. So it'd be good to avoid pure blue text or at least desaturate it with
a little bit of red or green colors to aid in focusing on
edges of text or important figures. There's some interesting
properties of color, this isn't necessarily chromatic
aberration, but we tend to perceive the red is being closer than the blue, and
this is our part of our perceptual system. For color perception, there's
a difference in brightness, as well. Blue is generally a darker
color than red or green. If you look at the pure
luminance of a color, the luminance of that color will be
30% of its red component + 59% of its green component + 10%
of its blue component. That means that green is six
times as bright as blue, and green is twice as bright as red and
red three times as bright as blue. And if you have yellow, you can create yellow in the additive
color system by red plus green. Yellow is very bright. It's 31% plus 59% gives
you 90% brightness. And you can figure out the luminance
of these other colors based on that. Also, it's important to acknowledge
that a good number of people, in particular, 10% of males,
are color blind. And if you're displaying
information with color, you may want to add additional
ques to that information. So that people that are color
blind can also understand it, and also to pay attention to contrast. Because if you're displaying
something only with color, then people who are color blind aren't
going to be able to tell the difference. Just color contrast and so you may want to
change the brightness of the color as well and use this formula to make sure enabling
colors have different brightnesses and addition to different use. And these colors, these red, green and blue colors yet
change into a different color space. Space brightness, brightness shade. And then, a brightness minus blue, and a red minus green channel. So you get a color space that goes
from black to white, yellow to blue, and red to green. This is the black white channel,
this is the yellow blue channel. And this is the red green channel. That's what actually gets into
the brain after some processing of the retinal image. And so, you're cones and
rods will start to get exhausted [COUGH] if you stare at the plus
sign in the middle of the screen here, you'll start to see that the purple dot
that's missing instead of missing will start to turn green because it's turning
into the complement of the purple color. And once it starts, if you keep staring at
the plus eventually that green dot will eat up the rest of the dots and
you're left with a solid gray screen. And this is all due to, basically,
some exhaustion of the rods and cones in your perceptual system. So the human retina perceives
light using rods and cones. Cones perceive color,
rods perceive brightness. We have more cones near our fovea,
our center of vision, and more rods in our peripheral vision. Also, we tend to expect warmer
colors to be in the forefront, and cooler colors to be in the background. [MUSIC] [SOUND