So we perceive light with our retina, but it still needs to be processed on
its way to our cognitive system. That processing is performed by ganglia. And that's how we perceive
individual impulses of light and turn them into actual shapes. So as we present data
visually to a human observer, we want to make sure that that
data is perceived correctly. And that means that the data
that's sensed by the rods and cones in our retina ends up
being processed further by our perceptual system before it even
gets to our cognitive system. How can we make sure that the visual
data is going to be presented so that it's perceived properly and
correctly? So in the Model Human Processor, this data that's coming from the human
retina goes through a visual image store. Where it goes through significant
perceptual processing, before you even think about it, before
you even realize what you're looking at. And this perceptual processing starts right after the data has been
sensed by the rods and cones. This is an image from Gray's Anatomy, and you can see that as soon as
the data has been sensed, we've got other cells, these nerves called
ganglia, that are processing the data. In this case a horizontal cell is
actually comparing the results of what's being sensed by the rods and
the cones. And this helps us to detect patterns and
accentuate and exaggerate differences
in neighboring sensors. This helps us detect edges and motion and
tigers hiding in the bush because tigers hiding in the bush will create
patterns in our peripheral vision. And those patterns can change over time. And these horizontal cells
that are comparing and exaggerating those differences
can tell us to then run away. So for example,
when we see a shade of gray, we see that in context of
the surrounding shades of gray. And so here we have a gray color
surrounded by a lighter color. And here we have a gray color
surrounded by a darker gray color. And this box looks like
it's darker than this box, so this is a darker shade
of gray than this gray. When in fact those two shades
of gray are identical. They're the same shade of gray. It's just when we surround them with
these boxes in different context, our perceptual system will
accentuate the difference. And make this gray look darker,
and this gray look brighter. When in fact,
they're the same shade of gray. This also works with color. And so on the left block I, you can see that these two
block I's are the same color. But here the color appears lighter, because these squares
are next to white squares. And here they appear darker because
these squares are next to green squares. And you can also demonstrate
this with Mach bands. Here I've got a gradation
from dark gray to light gray. And here I've got a plot of basically
the number of photons coming from each of these bands to our eye. And in fact, what our rods and
cones are sensing for each one of these bands is
proportional to this graph. What's actually being sent to our brain
from our perceptual system though looks like this. And you can see that this flat gray
rectangle next to this lighter gray rectangle,
this darker rectangle gets darker here. And this lighter rectangle
is lighter here. You can see it get lighter here and
that's not because I've changed any color. This is all the same shade of gray. It's that our visual system is
making this shade of gray brighter because it's next to a darker color. And our visual system wants to
accentuate the existence of this edge when these two shades
are very close to each other. And this can cause problems too. In this case we've got
the lateral inhibitors, which are these cells comparing
neighboring rod and cone values. In our peripheral vision,
if I look at any one of these junctions, I see a solid gray color. But the junctions and neighboring cells start to flicker
black and white because of this lateral inhibition of our perceptual
system trying to accentuate those edges. This also works with orientations, our perception of orientation is also
based on sort of this local comparison. And so
these lines look like they are diverging. It looks like these two parallel lines
are getting further apart as they move this direction because they
are the sum of all of these intersections that are slightly askew from these cubes. But if I remove these cubes, you see
that these lines really are parallel. And the perception that the lines are not
parallel is basically because of adding up all of those misperceptions of
orientations due to the offset cubes. Similarly, I can take this diamond
shape made from four straight lines and if I superimpose on top of these four
straight lines of this diamond shape a bunch of concentric circles. This diamond shape, these lines start
to look like they're bowed inside. And that's because the orientation
of this line is based on our perception of
the orientations relative to these concentric circles, and
we get this bowing effect. At a much higher level,
it can also confuse our cognitive system. In this case,
we have an 8 x 8 block of shapes and that should give us 64
units squared of area. If I take these very same shapes and
reorganize them here, I'm now covering a 13 x 5 area which
gives me 65 unit squares of area. And so somehow I've taken the same
shape with the same area. And gotten an extra unit
square of area on the right. And the reason is the accuracy of
our perception of orientation. We have basically this triangle's angle
going into this rhombus' angle here. And the slope of these triangles
is basically three-eighths. And the slope of these quadrilaterals, this edge of this
quadrilateral is two-fifths. And two-fifths is just not
equal to three-eighths but we just don't see the difference. We also see size in context. And so here I have two blue discs. This blue disc is sitting
amidst some small yellow discs. And this blue disc is sitting
amidst some large yellow discs. And this blue disc looks
large as a result and this blue disc looks small as a result. But in fact they are the same size,
and so we see things in context because of these local comparisons
that our perceptual system does. So lateral inhibition helps us perceive
shapes by emphasizing edges and other differences. But lateral inhibition can also interfere
with data visualization when we have big changes in data happening
close to each other. So we have to understand how
the human visual system works at this higher perceptual level so that we can more effectively use it
to display data to be perceived. For example, we want to make sure we're
sensitive to the context of the data. And that we keep data in the same
context when we're making comparisons. [MUSIC] [SOUND]