So when we use three dimensional computer
graphics for data visualization. We need to queue the viewer that they're
looking at a three dimensional scene even though they're seeing
a two dimensional image. That means we need to add three
dimensional perceptional queues to an image, but those perceptional queues
can interfere with our perception if three dimensions or two dimensions. So we'll learn how we perceive a 3D
world from the two dimensional image on our retina and how that ability to
perceive the 3D world can interfere with the visual presentation
of two dimensional data. And what we can do to
avoid that misperception. So again, we'll look at the visual
part of the model human processor. Basically, our eye is going to be sensing
data that's going to be processed by this perceptual processor. And as perceptual processor
has been developed to understand three dimensional scenes
more that two dimensional scenes. In particular, perspective. Perspective is a broad word. It includes things like foreshortening. The fact that three dimensional objects
are projected onto an image plane or onto our retinal hemisphere. And that projection creates
foreshortening, so if I look at a unit cube, when I look at a projection
of the unit cube on an image plane. Some of the edges
are shorter than the others. The edges in the depth direction
are going to be shorter than the edges in the transverse directions. And so that's foreshortening, the effect that this edge is shorter
than this edge in the projection, even though in the three-dimensional
scene they're the same length. And so lengths in a projection
are not necessarily accurate compared to the lengths in the real world,
but perceptually we've grown to understand that these lengths
could be the same length. And the differences are the result of
the projection onto the image plane. And then there's Linear Perspective, and you can see that here we have
a projector which is basically aligned from the object to a focal point
through an image plane here. That's being used by this early
artist in order to create a perspective drawing of this object as a, When we were first understanding
how perspective worked. Basically, linear perspective said
that object that are further away appears smaller and you can see that here. And then we have size constancy. We know that object like this musical
instrument aren't going to change size. And so
if an object appears to be changing size, it must be moving farther away from us or
closer to us, and that objects that appear smaller than
other objects must be farther away. That's a size constancy
expectation we have, and our perceptual system depends on that. So it can also malfunction. And so
here I've got a very simple line drawing. With two parallel lines, A and B,
and then I've got two lines that are receding in the distance, that are,
kind of sloped against each other. And these two lines can set up
the appearance of, for example, railroad tracks or
some two lines that are converging to a vanishing point in
a perspective drawing. And if that's the case, then line A,
if this was a perspective rendering of a three-dimensional scene, line A should
be farther away from us than line B. And if that's the case,
line A should be much bigger. And in fact, A looks bigger in
this image because of that. But actually line A and
line B are the same size. But, when we add these additional lines
in here, when we add a perspective context to these lines, line A looks
bigger, because it's farther away. Similarly, I could have two equal
length vertical lines here. And if I add a few other decorations,
suddenly I've changed the length and now this line looks shorter and this line looks taller even though I
know that they are the same length. After adding these additional lines,
I've decreased the size of this line and increase the size of
this line perceptually. And the reason is if I follow
these out further I'm thinking of this line in perspective as being
the front corner of a cube. And this line is being the back corner of
for example a room if this is the floor and the ceiling and this is to the wall
this is the back corner of the room. And this is the closest corner of
an external cube, if that's the case then I would expect this line to be farther
away because it's the back corner and this line to be closer to me,
because it's the front corner. And in perspective, if I have two lines,
but this line is closer to me, and this line is farther away, even though
these two lines are the same length, this one looks bigger,
because it's farther away. Perspective can also confuse
us just from foreshortening, not from linear perspectives. So, here I've got a parallelogram, and anytime you have parallel lines that
aren't meeting at ninety degree angles, we expect them to be
receding in other distance. And so here,
even though this is just a parallelogram, you want it to be a quadrilateral
with right angles or rectangle. That just happens to be receding Into the
distance and that it's being foreshortened into a parallelogram because it's
being projected on to our retina. If that as the case, then if this
is receding into the distance, then the fact that B is closer to
this point than it is to this point, would make this line
A shorter than line C. And just looking at the figure it looks
like line AB is shorter than line BC, when in fact line AB and BC are the same
length for this is an isosceles triangle. This also works with texture. Here I just have
an arrangement of lipsoids, a two dimensional arrangement of lipsoids. We tend to perceive it as for example the tops of oil barrels
receding off in the distance. Because I've smaller features and
more features in the distance and so I've got a higher frequency of
smaller features in the distance and they lower frequency of
fewer larger features. In the foreground, and we tend to attribute that to a projection
of linear perspective, as well. And we also have certain
lighting assumptions. So we're used to the sun being over head. And so we're used to objects,
seeing the front sides of objects, and those objects are illuminated from above. And so we see this dot illuminated
from above as a convex sphere, and we see this dot illuminated
from below with the illumination on the bottom side as being
a concave indentation. Because we don't expect illumination
to come from the bottom, we expect illumination
to come from the top. And the only way for this to be
illuminated from the top like this, is if it was an indentation instead of
a bulge, as it is on the left side. So when we use three dimensional graphics
for data visualization, our perception of size is based on our perception of
how far the object is away from us. And that can sometimes mislead us to
what the actual size of the object is. So we want to avoid using
three-dimensional computer graphics for data visualization when we can, and only
use it when it's absolutely necessary. [MUSIC]