In the last session
we discussed DB scan, a density-based
clustering methods. For the same group of authors, they later invented another interesting
algorithm called OPTICS, ordering points to identify
clustering structures. Why they wanted to do that? Just because DBscan is
sensitive to parameter setting. So OPTICS extended DBscan
but make it is much less sensitive to
parameter setting because it can find
a clustering structure. This algorithm was developed
by almost the same group of authors in SIGMOD 1999. We can have a simple operation. Suppose we fix one parameter of DBscan say minimum
number of points. Then for density-based clusters with respect to high density, that means you just
need a small radius to cover the number of
minimum points like five, these dense clusters
are completely contained in clusters with
respect to a lower density. Simply it says,
the dense cluster is deeply nested in the less
dense clusters because, less dense cluster
needs a bigger radius to cover the same number
of minimum points. So if we observe
this one we probably can see we may have high
density points, it should be processed
first or deeper, in order to find a high
density cluster first, then we can plot them into a reachability plot
for datasets. OPTICS actually stores
such a clustering structure using two pieces of information, core distance and the
reachability distance. We will introduced
in the next slide, but let's look at
this reachability plot. If we got this set of datasets, then if we study their
reachability distance, since the points
belonging to a cluster, have lower reachability
distance to their nearest neighbors
simply it says you just need a smaller disk to cover
the minimum number of points. So your Epsilon disk radius
should be smaller. That means the valley should contain the very dense clusters. The deeper the valley, the denser the cluster. So you probably can
see if we order them according to their
reachability distance, we probably can plot
them into a graph. So you can easily find
the clustering instructors. So that's the trick of OPTICS. Then let's look at how OPTICS is defining core distance and
the reachability distance. We first look at
the core distance. For a core distance of
an object p like this one is the smallest
Epsilon value such that piece Epsilons
neighborhood will contain at least the minimum points objects,
for example five. Let's see if you say p, you'll try to find its radius to cover five points like one, two, three, four, five points. Now you probably can see this Epsilon should
be three millimeters. Simply say three
millimeter you will be able to cover five points, that's actually is the
definition of the core distance. Simply it says if
p is so isolated, you just cannot find enough neighbors to cover
the minimum points. Then we say this core distance is undefined because you
would stretch so large, you just cannot find
enough neighbors. On the other hand, if you can find the minimum
number of points, then this minimum
number of points distance of p is
the core distance. For example here like this p, you just need a three
millimeter to cover this, then the core distance
is three millimeter. Then we look at
reachability distance. The reachability distance is from a core object q.
Reachability distance of p, you want to reach this q, what you want to define is
the minimum radius value which makes p density
reachable from q. If you want to see if
p can reach q from q, then you just to see if
q is not a core object. Simply it says no matter
how big your stretch is, just cannot have enough object to get a minimum
number of points, then this reachability
distance is undefined. Otherwise, you just to
see which one is bigger. Is it the core distance,
is it bigger, or the distance from
q to p is bigger? For this picture you probably
can see is if you look at the reachability distance from q to p rather than from p to q, we just looked at it
from q to p. If q1 to p is smaller than
the core distance, then the core distance should be the
reachability distance. Otherwise, like this
q2 try to reach p, then if it's bigger
than the core distance, then the reachability distance is the distance between p and q2. So that's essentially is the definition of
reachability distance. That mean how big your disk is in order to reach enough
number of minimum points. To calculate this,
the complexity is O (N log ) if you have index. N is number of points, so it is not too bad. Then based on this idea, we actually work out
these clustering structure. The structural graph,
the nice thing is this method produces special clustering ordering of the data points with respect to density-based
clustering structure. Then the clustering structure actually it contains information equivalent to density-based of clustering corresponding to a broad range of
parameter settings. For example, the first
thing is you fix the minimum number of points
you'll get this plot. With this plot for example, you see there are
four major clusters. If you do not think this one is something you actually
can find a one, two, three, four clusters. Even you change the
number of minimum points, you will still be able to find
the same number one, two, three, four, of course, the plot is somehow
changed the shape with the different
minimum number of points, but still we can
find four clusters. Moreover, you can
find nested clusters. For example, this bigger cluster has three deeply nested clusters. When you look at
this bigger cluster, it contains if you'd see
the deeper one you'd see one, two, three deeper clusters
corresponding to this. So you probably can see
this is a very nice you'd use different lie
on the Epsilon. You actually can find the bigger cluster and
nested clustering structures. So it is a pretty
interesting algorithm and you can actually use
automatic or interactive. If you do clustering analysis, you can find intrinsic even hierarchically nested
clustering structures. So this is a pretty interesting
extension to DBscan, that's the OPTICS algorithm.